# 2025 Books

## Books read starting December 1st 2019 archive links

[Archive 2020](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-2020.md)\
[Archive 2021](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-2021.md)\
[Archive 2022](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-2022.md)\
[Archive 2023](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-2023.md)\
[Archive 2024](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-2024.md)\
[Master Index](https://github.com/Tsukiyonocm/Reading-List/blob/main/README-MasterIndex.md)

## Books read starting December 1st 2024

### Non-Fiction

1. <b>Mengele: Unmasking the Angel of Death</b> by David G. Marwell (12-24-24) - The author of the book was actually involved with 
the hunt for Josef Mengele back in the 80's when they were trying to figure out if he was dead or not. Overall the book is broken 
into two parts, the first part is about the early history up to and including World War 2. This part is quite interesting going 
into his academic achievements prior to joining the army. You read about how he did end up joining the war and was a glorified 
medic in the army for many years before his connections was able to get him into the head position at Auschwitz. Here the book 
is quick to point out that some of the worst things said about Mengele is largely fairy tale in the sense that there is no verifiable 
evidence that some of them happened. That said, there does look to be ample evidence into his work with twins and verifying 
what happened to them as they both died at same time. The second half of the book focuses on his run from Germany and life 
in South America while in hiding and ultmately the search for him and trying to prove his death. Overall, the book was fascinating
though the chapters that details the events after what ultimately happened after his death was a bit slow and not as interesting. 
That said, the final chapter talking about the first and probably only meeting between Josef and his son Rolf. Here we see that 
Josef was unrepentant and refused to see how everything he did was a bad thing. Lastly, just how someone was able to coldly look 
thru the groups of people and see not a person, but without any emotion choose thousands for immediate death.

2. <b>Under a White Sky</b> by Elizabeth Kolbert (1-13-25) - This book delves into mans propensity to try to solve problems via either natural or unnatural means. What I mean by this is for instance brings bugs into a environment that is not normally a host to those bugs in order to combat some other unnatural thing in the area. Think invasive species that are brought in to combat another invasive species of animal or plant. The book talks about carp that was brought in from China for instance which were brought in to help combat an invasive algea bloom. These carp though became such a dominant force in the waters that they out competted other fish causing many to go extinct. Other chapters go for more of our technical solutions to problems we brought on us because of our technical and industrial growth. For instance, rising water levels because of the increase in worldwide temprature, the bleaching of the reefs, and ice melting on the arctic and antarctic ice sheets. Among the solutions that is being proposed is to use machines to pull carbon out of the air in order to lower CO2 concentration, spraying an aerosol into the sky in order to reflect sunlight back to space, engineering coral species to be able to more hardy via gene editing and reintroducing them into the oceans, to name a few. The book was interesting and ended at the outset of the Covid pandemic where one again we were being forced to react to an event that is largely more at risk to happening because of our infringing into more and more habitats around the world.

3. <b>Four Lost Cities: A Secret History of the Urban Age</b> by Annalee Newitz (2-5-25) - This book delved a bit into the lost cities of Angkor, Cahokia, Catalhoyuk and Pompeii. Of these most people are only going to be familiar with Pompeii. My personal interest was in Cahokia as it was centered where I spent most of my youth and I honestly knew little about them. While the book wasn't a deep dive into any of them it did go a bit into how the cities arose and how they ultimately fell into obscurity. The author talks about how none of these cities are really lost, using Angkor as an example, it was still being used to some extent just about 100 years ago. Catalhoyuk, which is largely thought to be the first city ever in human evolution took centuries before it was fully empty. Those people were still in the area but are assumed to have largely moved to smaller settlements in the area. Cahokia its is largely assumed was a melting pot of the various tribes in the larger Mississippian culture bringing in people from as far south as Louisiana. Overall, the book was quite interesting if not as much as a deep delving as I was thinking it would be.

4. <b>Temples, Tombs & Heiroglyps</b> by Barbara Mertz (3-5-25) - Honestly this was a bit intense but also fascinating really. The book is essentially going thru the entire history of ancient Egypt from their pre-history to the final fall of the kingdom to Rome after Cleopatra. The author points out various aspects of history where they really know next to nothing. For instance, the know more about the pre-dynasty period then I believe they do of the second dynasty. She wrote about how various pharoahs, Amenhotep III being a prime example, changed the god that was primary to the egyptian people through the years. Talked about how the tombs were robbed and the specukation on how the various figures thru antiquity tried to combat this. The book did not go into to much depth on much, but it was an interesting read for someone who has an interest in Egyptian history and just wants to learn a bit about everything.

5. <b>Hitler's First Hundred Days</b> by Peter Fritzsche (4-20-25) - Overall this was an informative read though wasnt exacty what I was thinking it would be (seems to be a theme recently with what I am reading). So the book 100% does delve into the first 100 days after Adolf Hitler becomes chancellor of Germany and the Third Reich begins. In the process though it continues and delves a bit more into the future impacts of those policies over the following years and how things played out. Talks a bit about the Brown Shirts and how they strong armed the citizens and in many ways killed off the competitors. Talks about the various policies that was implemented, the silencing of descent and enlisting the citzenry to report on those who might not be fully loyal. Removing rights from those just because their grandparents had slightly to much percentage of bad blood in them. The book itself was not really anything I hadnt heard or read elsewhere, but I think the most startling fact that can be taken from this book was just how quickly things changed in those days and how more or less OK everyone was with it. The average citizen largely played along or fully bought into the new regime without so much as a sidestep in their day to day lives. Using radio they were able to make the populace believe that things were improving even when all evidence to the contrary could be seen daily. Another interesting note was how similar the leadership of the United States and Germany was. How both leaders could have possibly be interchanged (Hitler in US and Roosevelt in German) and the timeline of each country would have been different. Roosevelt chose to lead with a note of togetherness and unity. Where as Hitler and his government chose to tear apart and divide.

6. <b>How Democracies Die</b> by Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt (5-4-25) - Given the current political climate this was an interesting read. The authors go into a skimming of how various democracies that have died over the years and the events that have lead to it. The main is the polairization that happens between the various factions, the fair play rules that get broken between the sides and just in general a complete collapse of civility between the parties invovled. Talks about about Nazis, Pinochet, Chavez, and Erdogan among many other leaders. It also does talk about the United States in particular with the poliarization and treating the other side as the enemy instead of another group of people who have the best interest of the country in heart. They do talk in depth about the factors that have lead us to this point, including the escalation that has come about since President Trump first started to run for office back in 2012. The breakdown of calling the media fake, denying that there is fair election and calling them into question, stating that the other side is criminals and should be tried for treason. Among other things. Overall it paints a fairly bleak picture of the way things are going, especially given that this was written back in 2017 and things have only escalated more since then with largely both sides of the political aisle moving to the fringes and not trying to reach common ground.

7. <b>The Radium Girls</b> by Kate Moore (5-15-25) - This was a fantastic read about an event I knew nothing about for the longest time. The book is written in a unique fashion where it almost reads like a standard story but is also a documentary. It throws the facts but uses a lot of phrasing that makes you just think you are reading a story. The story takes place starting in the 1910s when the women are starting to work in dial factories painting with a radium based paint that glows in the dark. Their method of painting was to put the brush tips in their mouth to get that fine point and then to paint these dials which were sometimes centimeters in size. In the end though, this built up an amount of radiation in their blood that lead to their teeth falling out, their jaws breaking apart and falling out, various cancers and various other health maladies. Its a heart breaking read really seeing this hopelessness building up to the end. Can't recommend this book enough.

8. <b>The AI Revolution in Medicine: GPT4 and Beyond</b> by Peter Lee (6-5-25) - This was a very interesting read even if it did not cover all the stuff that I thought it would. While the book does go into a bit on how AI will be involved with the actual diagnosis and looking into testing for your ailements, it seemed more to focus on how it will help your average individual more so. For instance, how AI can be used to get a better understanding of what your blood work is telling you. In addition, especially early on, it could be used more to help clear up some of the overwork that is in the medical field by picking up and processing the paperwork portion of doctors visits and freeing up the doctors and nurses time for better care of the patient. The book also did focus on a good bit of the ethical side of using AI and taking the stance that it should have the patient involved in the decision making process as well for transparency. I had hoped that this book would delve more into how it can be used to hasten diagnosis or looking into test results and pulling a diagnosis out of a hat years earlier then otherwise possible, but still was not disappointed.

9. <b>Asteroid Hunters</b> by Carrie Nugent (6-11-25) - This book was either based on a TED talk or its just marketed as part of Ted Talks. Either way, was somewhat interesting though it didnt go to indepth into much of the topics at least to what I didnt already know. Talks about how the Astronomers use telescopes to find asteroids, the history of when it began, and the processes they use now to find them easier and quicker. It also did delve a bit into the topic of what would happen if an asteroid was on its way to hit the earth, as well as, going into some about the different ways that we can currently deflect that asteroid given enough time.

10. <b>In The Realm of Hungry Ghosts</b> by Gabor Mate (8-1-25) - This was a suprisingly interesting read. I intially started reading into this because I had heard about it through a book on Ebola and assumed it was about that. I was wrong. The book talks about additction and in particular the addicts and how the brain is affected. The author has many tales in the book about addicts at his practice where he helps treat people for addiction and provide a better quality of life, without the judgement. He talks about his own issues with addiction, though not of the chemical kind, but about impulsively buying classical music. Talks about how all addictions stem from the same underwriting issues in the human brain, regardless if talking about chemical, alcohol, eating, shopping or anything. Some of the most interesting stuff I read though was in regards to how beneficial assisted injection sites would be for improving not just the quality of life for the addict, but also to improving the quality of life for the neighborhoods that these addicts call home. The lower crime rates, lower levels of disease, the lower level of deaths to overdose the list  can go on and on. I could probably write about this book for a bit but needless to say I find this book incredibly interesting.

11. <b>The Dodo</b> by Charles River Editors (8-7-25) - Ive always been fascinated by the Dodo Bird. Not sure why, but its always been my favorite animal. I originally found this while looking up books about the bird which seemingly is few and far between. Overall this talks about the first written instances of the bird which date back to sometime in the 1500's, the first people landing on the island of Mauritius, and the subsequent last confirmed sighting of it, which dated in the 1660's, though there was uncofirmed sightings for the next 50ish years or so. While the book was short it was an interesting read which did break some of the preconceived ideas of the bird. Mostly the thought that the bird was stupid and to large to walk. The bird were unafraid because they had not seen humans or had an predators on the island previously, so had learned no reason to fear anything. That said, they were shown to have attacked people when first meeting them. Overall the book was a quick interesting read for you if interested in the Dodo Bird. I can highly recommend it and need to look for more books in the future if there any. 

12.<b>The Coddling of the American Mind</b> by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Haidt (10-2-25) - This book is basically about how american youth are more and more due to how they are being raised are hitting age milestones later in life while also not being able to grow up in the same way young adults were able to in generations past. Currently the country is safer than it has ever been in the last 50 years but there has been a raise in helicopter parenting and an all around fear that the children will suffer anything as small as a minor discomfort if they are outside the vision of an adult. Due to this, once they reach college, they are not able to adapt and deal with anything that can be a minor incovenience or even just someone who thinks differently then then. So we have been seeing outrage and protest which have forced staff to either cancel speechs or even lose their jobs because of what should have been a learning excercise for both parties. This has been an issue for both sides of the political spectrum, thought he issues on the right tend to be different then the outrage on the left. On the right there has been a movement to the far right which has accelerated the issues on the left.

13. <b>The SS Dirlewanger Brigade: History of the Black Hunters</b> by Christian Ingrao (11-25-25) - This was ultimately something I read about because I seen it in a list of books on sale and I knew nothing about them. Turns out this is sort of like a German version of Inglorious Bastards where a bunch of Nazi delinquents were taken out of prison or concentration camps and given largely free range to capture partisans in other areas on the russian front. I had expected this to go a bit more indepth into what sort of gruesomeness they were being charged with, but those sort of details were more surface levels, though that seems to be also because there is not a lot known that can be confirmed. It seems though these people were tasked with finding rebels in areas by any means necessary. They would pillage, rape and kill everyone in there way. The mindset that was drilled into these people is they were hunting animals and as animals they didnt deserve any respect. The troops of this unit was involved with putting down the Warsaw Uprising and is expected that of the 20 or so mass graves there, 6 of them are from this unit alone just butchering people. While I didnt quite learn the details I wanted, I learned enough to realize that this sort of depravity has no place in civilized life.

### Fiction
1. <b>Beren and Luthien</b> by J. R. R. Tolkien (1-4-25) - I enjoyed revisiting the world of the Lord of the Rings, but I did not really
enjoy reading this story. So the story was broken up into chapters and each chapter was a slightly different retelling of the same
original story. So you basically read the story in the same fashion about 8 times during the course of the book. One of these retelling 
was in a poem form which I also was not expecting to read about a 100 page long poem. I had been expecting this to be written in the
same fashion as the Lord of The Rings, but alas I was disappointed with this. Overall the tale wasn't bad, I did enjoy the first telling
of it, I just wish the rest of the book would have been a continous story, and not just the variations of the story that the author
wrote in his life.

2. <b>Sea of Tranquility</b> by Emily St. John Mandel (1-18-25) - This was a suprising read honestly. It sort of reminds of a couple of 
Blake Crouch's books which honestly is honor. The story takes into account time travel, various characters who are connected by a 
event in time. The main character is charged with investigating the connection between these events and this leads you on a journey. 
This is honestly a simple story but its enjoyable. I can highly recommend it.

3. <b>Streams of Silver</b> by R. A Salvatore (2-23-25) - This is the 5th book in the Drizzt saga of books. For myself this is a reread 
as I had read this book many years ago and am going back to read it again. All around it kept my interest the same as it did the first
time. This story has everything that I have come to expect from a fantasy novel. Great characters, great settings, good enemies and just enough wit to keep it funny as well. Overall there is not much more to say about this story outside of that its one of the few stories I have read multiple times now which should tell you everything you need to know about it.

4. <b>Ten Thousand Skies Above You</b> by Claudia Gray (3-14-25) - This was the second book in the Firebird series of books by Claudia Gray. This picks up soon after the events of the first book where we find Margaurite having to search for the pieces of Paul through the various alternate realities that the firebird device allows them to travel through. In this book you get to find out the true people that are behind the events and also get to revisit some of the events of the first book later in the timeline. Overall this continues on me really liking the way the author builds the characters relationships and just the world building that goes into it. I look forward to reading the final book in the series in the near future. A must read for sure.

5. <b>Star Wars: The High Republic - Quest for the Hidden City</b> by George Mann (3-30-25) - Another entry into the Star Wars High Republic series. Overall another solid entry, though I just recently found out that this Phase 2 lineup as books are sort of prequels setting up events for the continuation of Phase 1's storyline. This one has us on a planet with a species which sort of sound like giant sentient praying mantisis. The species asked for help because they were no longer able to mine their neighboring planet to get ore for energy because of a disease that infected them when exposed. The pathfinder crews that initially were there to help came up missing on the other planet and were able to get a last second message to another crew. Overall the story was good, sort of simple but still interesting enough. Im curious to see how everything plays out in the future and see if I see any comparisons in this book to a future story arc. 

6. <b>Star Wars: The High Republic - Convergence</b> by Zoraida Cordova (5-2-25) - This was actually one of the better stories that have come out of the High Repulic's wave two books. The characters were well written and overall I felt the story and the growth of the characters was quite good as well. The basics of the story is that two planets have been at war for decades or centuries at this point. Due to circumstances some jedi end up on the planet and then the whole story revolves around trying to end the war thats destroyed both planets. I found to really like Gella the Jedi and the two young monarchs from the planets the most. Overall I still enjoy this whole story line though I do still find overall a disconnect between wave 1 and the wave 2 books.

7. <b>Dead Space Martyr</b> by B. K. Evenson (6-2-25) - I have enjoyed this book since I first read it way back on its original release in like 2010. The story takes place over the Chixulub crater in the Gulf of Mexico, the same crater that was created from the death of the dinosaurs. Inside this crater they find this clearly created object called a marker. During all this the marker was giving off some sort of signal which appears to be driving people slowly insane or homicidal. Over the course of the story we get to see the situation devolve and then a great ending to the story as well. As a huge fan of the game this book is fantastic and highly recommend.

8. <b>Cadaver: Book 2</b> by Nick Clausen (6-10-25) - This picked up where the first book ended. Largely starts with one of the main characters breaking out of the government facility camp and making a run for it. In the process we see the zombie infection spread to other areas around them. Overall I felt this wasnt as good of a story as the first book, but it was still interesting enough that I kept reading. It keeps multiple perspectives going just like the first book and overall not much new is learned about most of them. 

9. <b>Words of Radiance</b> by Brandon Sanderson (8-11-25) - Book 2 in the series finally read with a gap of almost 2 years since I finished the first book in the series. This one seems to have to hit the ground running a bit more then the first book in the series felt. Im thinking that since I didnt need to learn all the characers again and I had a idea still of what the original story was that this one seemed more interesting. Even though it took me nearly two months to read, I felt like I couldnt put this down especially towards the second half of the book. The main characters are again Kaladin, Shallen, and Dalinar as they try to stop the events that appear to be coming to of the voidbringers coming back. All around this was a fantastic read and I really need to make sure its not another 2 years before I move on to book three.

10. <b>Ready Player Two</b>> by Ernest Cline (9-1-25) - All around this was an enjoyable book, but felt it was no where near as good as the original was. The overall story starts by the heroes basically one week after the first book ends. All is well and good and then its not. They get access to a device that allows the users to go into the oasis and feel everything as if they were actually there. This leads eventually to the larger story at heart which I dont wish to go to deep into. There is still quite a lot of reference to old 80's music and movies from the range of Prince, Breakfast Club, and Lord of the Rings (obviously 90s or 2000's, but still its older now). Was a good read but just not quite on the same level as the first one was. 

<b>Star Wars: The High Republic - The Battle of Jedha</b> by George Mann (10-4-25) - This was another book which was adapted from an audio book so it was written out like a screen play. Overall I found the story interesting, but I dont really like this writing style and find it harder to read and really wish they would have just written a novel format as well. This continues the story arc from before where E'ronoh and Eiram, which is two planets that had been at war, are working to sign a peace treaty. There is a background story arc going on in regards to the Path of the Open Hand and their creature that sort of eats the force out of people and turns them into a Husk. Story was straight forward and interesting, its just really hard to get past the way its written for me. 

### Currently Reading

1. Fuck Feelings by Michael Bennett MD and Sarah Bennett
2. Star Wars: From a Certain Point of View - Return of the Jedi by Various Authors

### Current Book Completed Count as of 10/5/25

Non-fiction - 13\
Fiction - 11
